# Fuzzing SQLite Using AFL

This repository contains seed files and instructions for fuzzing the
SQLite language parser and code generator using the
American Fuzzy Lop (AFL) fuzzer.

## Prerequisites

  1.  The SQLite source tree available from <https://www.sqlite.org/src>
  2.  The latest version of AFL available from <http://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/afl>
  3.  The content of this repository either as a tarball, or preferably as
      a [Fossil](https://www.fossil-scm.org/) clone.

## How To Run The Fuzzer

  1.  Untar the AFL download into a directory which we will here call ~/afl

  2.  cd into ~/afl and type "make"

  3.  Create a subdirecctory ~/afl/sqlite

  4.  cd into ~/afl/sqlite and open this repository:
      fossil open ~/repos/afl-sqlite.fossil

  5.  Open the SQLite source repository in a directory which we will here
      call ~/sqlite.

  6.  cd to ~/sqlite and build the amalgamation:
      ./configure; make sqlite3.c

  7.  cd back to ~/afl/sqlite and copy source files into the ~/afl/sqlite
      directory:  cp ~/sqlite/sqlite3.[ch] .; cp ~/sqlite/tool/fuzzershell.c .

  8.  Build the instrumented fuzzershell:
      ../afl-gcc -O3 -o fuzzershell -DSQLITE\_THREADSAFE=0 -DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_LOAD\_EXTENSION=0 -DSQLITE\_NO\_SYNC -DSQLITE\_DEBUG -DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_FTS4 -DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_RTREE -DSQLITE\_OMIT\_RANDOMNESS -I. fuzzershell.c sqlite3.c -ldl

      -  Set -DSQLITE\_DEBUG to enable assert() statements.

      -  Set -DSQLITE\_OMIT\_RANDOMNESS to cause SQLite's PRNG to be seeded the
         same way on every run, so that the AFL fuzzer does not see variance
         between runs using the same input.

      -  The -DSQLITE\_NO\_SYNC is probably not needed since fuzzershell never
         writes to disk.  But it does not hurt.

      -  The -DSQLITE\_THREADSAFE=0 and -DSQLITE\_ENABLE\_LOAD\_EXTENSION=0
         options preclude the need for linking with -ldl and -lpthreads

  9.  Make an output directory:  rm -rf out; mkdir out

  10.  Disable the AFL warning about CPU frequency:
       export set AFL\_SKIP\_CPUFREQ=1

  11.  Run the fuzzer:
       ../afl-fuzz -i cull2 -o out -x ../testcases/\_extras/sql -- ./fuzzershell

       -  The original test vector set designed by Michal Zalewski is in the
          "minimized\_culled" directory.  This can be substituted in place
          of "cull2" if desired.

  12.  If the fuzzer stops for any reason (for example to update
       "fuzzershell.c" to a new version) then it can be restated by changing
       the "-i cull2" argument to just "-i-".  Example:

       -  ../afl-fuzz -i- -o out -x ../testcases/\_extras/sql -- ./fuzzershell


## Database File Fuzzing

The procedure above fuzzes SQL input.  To fuzz the database file format,
change step (11) to be the following:

  *   Run the fuzzer:
       ../afl-fuzz -i dbfuzz -o out -f testdb -- ./fuzzershell --database testdb db-fuzz-ck.txt

  *   Use the -i- trick to restart the fuzzer:
       ../afl-fuzz -i- -o out -f testdb -- ./fuzzershell --database testdb db-fuzz-ck.txt


The seed database file in the dbfuzz directory are created using
the db-fuzz-init.txt SQL script.

## Other links

  *   [How to cull the test case generated by AFL](./culling.md)

## Acknowledgements

  *  Michal Zalewski wrote AFL and supplied the "minimized\_culled" seed files.
